MPG REGRESSION

Dependent Variablle: mpg
Independent Variables: vehicle length, vehicle weight, spoiler angle, ground clearance, AWD

Of the independent variables listed above, the following provided a non-random amount of variance to the mpg values in the dataset:
-vehicle_length (100% significant)
-vehicle_weight (90% significant)
-ground_clearance (100% significant)

The rest were below a 90% significance level. 

The slope of the linear model is not considered to be zero. Each independent variable has a slope coefficent. We can predict the value of the response variable for a given set of predictor variables using these slope coefficients.

The linear model predicts mpg of MechaCar prototypes somewhat effectively - The R Squared value is .7149, meaning 71.49% of the variance in the dependent variable can be explained by changes in the independent variable. 

SUSPENSION COIL SUMMARY

The variance of the PSI is 62.29, which is below the 100 pounds per inch requirement. The current manufacturaing data meets the requirement for this reason. 

SUSPENSION COIL T TEST 

I will use a one sample t test, because I want to test the mean of a single group (the coil CSV) against a known mean (1500).

If our significance level is .05, the p value is above that (.05734). Meaning, we do not have enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis, and that are means are statistically similar.  

DESIGN YOUR OWN STUDY

Key metrics for analysis:

Cost, MPG 
In order to determine dollars paid per pile per gallon 

Question to ask for analysis: 

Using the sample MechaCar_mpg_dataset.csv to determine vehicle cost to miles per gallon ratio:
Based on the cost per mile per gallon of the car, are our vehicles priced 'cheaper', or less than the same metric for competing vehicles? 

We would need to use a Two Sample T Test:
The sample datasets are completely different (our data versus competitor data). 

Null hypothesis: 
There is no statistical difference between our observed sample mean (price per mile per gallon) and the competitors presumed sample means (price per mile per gallon)

Alternate Hypothesis: 
There is a statistical difference between our observed sample mean (price per mile per gallon) and the competitors presumed sample means (price per mile per gallon)

What data should be collected?
We would need a large enough to be representative of the population sample of our vehicle's fuel efficency (MPG) and our competitors fuel effeicency, along with the price, on a vehicle level. We could then calculate the means of the data set ($/MPG) and perform a T Test. MPG is continuous data and $ is numerical data, while vehicles are categorical data.